all I wanted to be was a painter and so
I studied painting at the Boston Museum
school and the Pennsylvania Academy of
Fine Arts while I was at the
Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts
I mostly painted it where I lived but I
also had a small cubicle in a big large
studio in the school I was in this
cubicle one night painting a garden at
night mostly black with some leaves
green coming out and I was sitting
looking at this painting and from the
painting I heard a wind and then I saw
the green start to move and I said Oh
moving painting everybody welcome back
Greg Bryan here and we're taking another
deep dive looking to Twin Peaks the
returned in many ways the return seems
to be Lynch reflecting on his entire
career for this video we want to take a
look at some of the reoccurring theme
subjects and images that played out so
far in 2010 before we do that make sure
to subscribe to the Universe channel to
stay up to date on all the latest stuff
a lot of the good TV that we're doing
we've got Rick and Marty just started
Game of Thrones preacher and of course
Twin Peaks as a quick note before we get
started this is for everybody who is
seen up through part 12 of the return so
spoilers ahead if you're not caught up
and if you are also bear in mind that we
still don't have the benefit of having
seen the last six episodes of the season
[Music]
so first up what I think actually kind
of goes sort of hand-in-hand with all of
the rest of the theme that we're gonna
bring out is how much Lynch uses echoes
mirrors doppelgangers throughout all of
his work
broadly speaking Lynch likes to play in
similarity there are few Lynch works
that you could reasonably claim don't
reference or echo in some way another
Lynch work furthermore within each
individual work you'll find mirrored
places and people or doppelgangers ah
ganger not just in Twin Peaks but across
decades of multiple films and TV shows
Lynch even casts and recast actors
sometimes to maintain continuity part of
the reason Lynch does this is because he
continuously revisits the same themes
these echoes mirrors or doppelgangers
don't necessarily suppose a common world
what they take place in so much as a
continued meditation on ideas from the
world that we take place this isn't to
say that the theories that suggest that
like twin peaks' in the holland dr take
place in the same universe are valid or
interesting but I think Lynch is mainly
you know using the same colors to paint
similar ideas and using the same actors
using the same settings
often like you know say music with
Badalamenti is more a way of expressing
the same nisonger then to say that they
take place in the same world listen to
me
listen to me there's something in that
box and that something is what I saw on
my dream we can't kill moving on let's
look into dreams though now winch's work
is set to reflect a part of his soul and
dreams are said to be the subconscious
trying to work itself out and Lynch once
said waking dreams are ones that are
important the ones that come when I'm
quietly sitting in the chair gently
letting my mind wander when you sleep
you don't control your dreams I like to
dive into a dream world that I've made
or discovered a world I choose the
dreamscape is a major theme in Twin
Peaks
time
in the return many characters have
experienced dreams that would soon
hearken the truth as seen in Lynch's
other works such as Mulholland Drive I
had a dream about this place now in the
return we've only seen dreams play out
slightly but I have a feeling they're
gonna play a major role in the final six
episodes possible right we haven't
necessarily spent much time in a dream
world but a lot of characters have
talked about the dreams like that yes
now one of my favorite genres of
filmmaking is body horror Lynch is
fascinated with the graphic generation
or destruction of the physical body much
of his work deals with decay disease
mutation or mutilation in some form
that's weird
fun fact which became a vegetarian after
Eraserhead
coming off of dreams of metamorphosis
which in Lynch films can be very
horrifying you can see that Lynch also
sees the world is filled with elements
of Technology evil and distraction that
cause anxiety and suffering which leads
to violence in particular violence
against women men dominating torturing
raping and murdering women is everywhere
in Lynch movies and TV is relentlessly
brutal exacting and Stark Lynch does not
advocate or approve of violence against
women in fact the opposite is true one
of the core missions of the David Lynch
foundation is to raise awareness and
support women and children who are
victims of abuse that said even though
he does not depict this abuse positively
he does not completely address the
complexities of abuse by strictly
sensationalizing into violence with the
thesis that at times subverts personal
responsibility women in the return are
mostly victims without agency preyed
upon by or even bound to men who fit
Lynch's model of the confused or
corrupted and lost masculine beings
archetypes echoed throughout his catalog
Stephen and Becky mr. C and Daria
Phyllis Hastings or Chantel or Richard
with Sylvia Horne
Miriam Sullivan and whoever that girl
was at the Roadhouse beyond them are the
mutilation of Ruth Davenport like the
spikes horrific stabbing of Lorraine and
the savage murder of Tracy in the New
York penthouse I think it's important to
add here that all of this violence is
not in a vacuum it's woven into this
rich tapestry of corruption and horror
that go with all of the other things
that we talk about I haven't known about
this affair I've been doing about this
affair all of all the last big thread in
this tapestry which often goes
hand-in-hand with the physical and
psychological violence is well
infidelity with a few cases of
non-monogamy good lord everybody is
sleeping with somebody else in David
Lynch tales and the return is no
exception
we've got Stephen cheating on Becky with
Kirsten Hayward dougie Jones the real
dougie Jones with Jade egg give to
rights Oh bet she did bill Hastings was
cheating on Phyllis Hastings with Ruth
Davenport Phyllis Hastings was cheating
on Bill with bills lawyer and possibly
mr.
Chantell has a thing on the side with
mr. C away from hutch Beverly Paige may
be getting involved with Ben Horne
Audrey Horne has been in belly while
married to Charlie who maybe seemed Tina
for all we know okay call the [ __ ] see
what she knows and most recently Mary
might be seeing Clark for Hine Angela's
back whoever the [ __ ] they are now that
seems like a lot but this is Twin Peaks
and fans of the original series know
just how tangled relationships can get
25 years ago there are still relevant
today Shelly Johnson cheated on Leo
Johnson with Bobby Briggs who was
cheating on Laura Palmer Laura Palmer
cheated on Bobby with James Hurley that
reminds me where's James been you could
also make the case that Laura Palmer
cheated on Bobby and James with most of
meanwhile Leland Palmer / Bob cheated on
Sarah Palmer with Teresa banks and of
course his daughter speaking of
daughters Ben Horne almost cheated on
Sylvia Horne was Audrey but that's just
the tip of a Ben Horne iceberg nice old
Ben Horne who also had an affair with
Catherine Martell she was cheating on
Pete who famously discovered Laura's
body she's dead wrapped in plastic he
had an affair with Eileen Hayward
resulting in Donna Hayward and slept
with pretty much the rest of
Norma Jennings owner of the R&R who's
always doing paperwork cheated on Hank
Jennings with bigoted Hurley who was
cheating on his wife Nadine Hurley who
had a relationship with Bobby's buddy
Mike after her accent
unbelievable sheriff Frank Truman's
brother sheriff harry s truman had an
affair with Josie Packard and finally
the most important affair of all Lucy
Brennan although technically not
cheating on deputy Andy Brennan at the
time had an affair with dick Tremaine
who may very well be the biological
father to man I really want to see Wally
Brando again I think that one thing was
good okay those are some of the major
themes and Twin Peaks the return that
also come from Twin Peaks and other
films and work by David Lynch yeah
there's so many more we got art and
cinema music let us know what your
favorites are in the comments section
below and you can do this up on Twitter
too alright guys bye bye